Factorio Mod 

Sparen's PRT Mod

Mod Description:
This mod provides Factorio with Personal Rapid Transit capabilities, using completely grade-segregated train-logic mini-pods on special track. The pods are solar powered and require no fuel, and run on designated routes, each with a set of stations, a name, and a color that is shown as part of the pod graphic. Special stations are used that do not appear in normal train schedules, and the pods do not appear in the main Train GUI. Instead, there is a PRT Pod Controller GUI that allows the player to select routes, displays route information, and allows the user to configure them. 

PRT track is one tile thick and two tiles long. A pod is therefore of the same dimensions. PRT systems are one-directional. There are three types of track - PRT Track, Block PRT Track, and Chain PRT Track. The latter two work as signalled track. The signals are placed at the end of the track in the direction of travel. Block and Chain track require additional resources, but it is highly recommended that they be used everywhere except for junctions.

PRT Pods cannot hold cargo. They can, however, be grouped tightly together assuming the best signalling is used. Due to the fact that a complete set of bidirectional track can be placed in the space of one normal railroad track (note: once again, this depends on turning loops - the minimum distance will likely be two tiles between track, though this has yet to be determined. 

On the world map, PRT track and pods will likely have different colors from ordinary rail and trains. Pods will likely move with the same speed and signal restrictions as trains, though whether this will hold true will depend on whether or not the system can be configured, etc. Most likely, PRT pods will have a significantly higher maximum speed compared to ordinary trains due to their real life low weight and electric traction.

Advantages of the system include no need for personal trains and no need for fueling trains used primarily for custom transportation. You show up at a station, wait, and ride.

Disadvantages include the issue of running many routes on the same track. Thankfully the width of the track and the lack of external signalling means that it is possible to build doubled track in one direction with ease. The system is rather expensive to set up, however, as the pods are expensive and many pods are needed for maximum efficiency and usability. Additionally, to run well, many stations are required. 

By default, pods will stop at a station for 5 seconds. This will be configurable. Stations themselves will likely be around the same size as a standard train station. The player will board from the ground. PRT pods CANNOT be manually driven and will not have the option.

Pod Alternatives:
Alternative 1: 
One Pod Fits All - only one type of pod that provides faster-than-railway max speed.

Alternative 2:
Local Pod and Express Pod - Local Pods would have the same speed constraints as standard trains. Express Pods would have an insane max speed, allowing for the player to blast across the map in seconds... assuming the block ahead is clear.

Structural Alternatives:
PRT track is elevated and the pods therefore have no collision box. However, the track requires supports. 

Alternative 1:
Placement of supports will support electric pole style drag and hold for the correct distance. Track cannot be placed without adequate supports. Supports cannot be used to support curving track. The minimum distance has yet to be determined but will likely be dependent on turning loops, where support placement is a necessary evil.

Alternative 2:
Supports are only associated with signals, and signalled track will be limited to STRAIGHT track - in this alternative, curved track cannot be signalled and must be made with base track. Additionally, the rail planner will not work in this scenario due to certain types of track not allowed. Under this alternative, it is feasible to have all track floating in the air (with no blocks of course), which comes in handy since you can build over water without any supports (unless you want blocks). Issues with this alternative are centered on collision detection when placing the track. If base track can be placed ANYWHERE, you have floating track, can float track above the rocket silo and other nonsensical places, and can even do weird things like floating it over other rail. There are a number of implementation issues that must be addressed as to what collides with nonsupported track and what does not collide. Most likely, rail, the player, and transport belt will be the only things allowed to go under, and all other objects will show a red CANNOT PLACE box.

Implementation:
-